A man is but the product of his thoughts
what he thinks he becomes.
What is the relevance of Gandhi in this
all-pervading materialistic agnostic and
consumerist culture? It is precisely
these three tendencies Gandhi fought all
his life. The name of Mahatma Gandhi
transcends the bounds of race, religion
and nation and has emerged as the
prophetic voice of the 21st century.
He is remembered for his passionate
adherence to the practice of
non-violence and his supreme humanism. He
successfully demonstrated to a world
weary with wars and continuing
destruction that adherence to truth and
non-violence is not meant for individual
behavior alone but can be applied in
global affairs too. Although it is true
that in year has been an integrated
nation since olden times, it is also true
that on the present context Gandhian
values have special significance for
national integration. Today communal
amity has become essential for national
integration and hence, Gandhi gave it the
highest priority. Mahatma Gandhi
instilled in us the qualities of
politics with principles; wealth with work;
commerce with morality; education with character;
pleasure with conscience;
science with humanity and worship with sacrifice.
"Power to Empower", as the moto
of Digital India would proclaim,
resonates with the Gandhian ideology of
Modernity blending with tradition. His
thoughts regarding prosperity of all
Indians became the base of the Digital
India project. He believed that the
universality of religion can best be
realized through the universalization of
education and that it was the
springboard for
national integration. Keeping these
thoughts in mind the educate Girl Child
program was a crucial and a successful
step in modern-day India,
All thanks to Gandhi
-
Captioning By Sarthak Singhal